70.9
https://pragmaticthinking.com/blog/a-good-sleep-guide/

Step #1: When you wake up, practice gratitude.
If you suffer from poor sleep, you may find that your bed has become a place of negative feeling and emotion. As you may expect, this is only going to hamper your chances of future nights of good rest. It’s hard to relax in a place you hate being in, right?

If this is you, a good start is to create a positive association with the place you lay down each night. This can be as simple as acknowledging 1-3 things that you are grateful for each morning. That way when you head to bed that evening you are more likely to feel that your bedroom is a place of positive feeling and peace, both of which are conducive to falling asleep faster and staying asleep longer.

 

Step #2: 2-3 hours before bed, wrap up exercising and eating larger meals.
Let’s start with exercise. Exercise is something that often will help you sleep better that night. It can help to relieve tension from the body and clear the mind. However, you want to make sure you have finished exercising at least two hours before bed.

Why? Because when you work out you place your body in a state of (good) stress. Your body and mind need time to slow down from this before you will be ready to doze off. So, make sure you plan your workouts so your system has enough time to prepare for sleep.

Similar to exercising before bed, eating a large meal before you try to sleep will often prevent you from getting a good night’s rest. This is because both digesting food and sleeping require a lot of energy, so it’s best to only ask your body to do one at a time.

Pro tip: light snacks such as fruit are fine right up until bed.

 

Step #3: Avoid booze before you snooze.
Many people think that having a cheeky bevvy before bed helps them sleep. I call this The Nightcap Myth. The truth is that alcohol is NOT a sleep aid; it is, in fact, a mild sedative. And while being sedated may feel like being asleep, they are neurologically very different states which have very different effects on both the mind and body.

If you are getting the sense that I’m ranting and this is a pet-peeve of mine, you’re absolutely right. So rather than me continuing to bang on about it here, feel free to head over here to learn how avoiding booze can help you get better quality sleep.

Step #4: Schedule your sleep.
A lot of the tips in this guide are to help you maximise the time you are in bed; helping you to fall asleep faster and to give you a better shot at sleeping through the night.

However, the bottom line is that you need to be in bed for the amount of time our biological makeup demands, otherwise these other tips just aren’t going to have the same impact.

Now, for the fun part. Work out when you need to be awake by, work backwards by 8 hours. Boom. It isn’t rocket science by any means, but scheduling your sleep to make sure you get enough of it is well worth the effort. 

 

Step #5: 1 hour before sleep, ditch the screen(s).
Chances are that you’ve heard how blue light emitted from most ‘screens’ inhibits your brain from releasing melatonin, which is a key component to ‘sleep pressure’ AKA feeling sleepy.

Case in point is if you’ve ever been camping with no screens, felt tired at what feels like 11 pm, checked the time and found out it’s barely past 7 pm. In this scenario, your brain is simply allowed to release melatonin earlier and makes you feel tired, rather than being artificially delayed by your rampant Netflix and Candy Crush addiction.

In an ideal world, to stop yourself from being a victim of your technology, you wouldn’t look at any screens once the sun has gone down in the evening. For most of us though, myself included, this just isn’t practical or remotely enjoyable.

To give your brain a chance to do what it knows is good for you, and get those sweet melatonin juices flowing, get disciplined around not looking at your screens a minimum of 1 hour before your bedtime.

 

Step #6: 30 minutes before bed, bio-hack your sleep.
Alright, we are coming to crunch time when our head hits the pillow. Let’s have a look at a couple of strategies that when used in combination with each other quite literally kick-start your system into sleep mode.

Strategy 1: Have a hot/warm shower. This will send blood to your skin and extremities. Sounding weird so far I know, but stick with me…

Strategy 2: Before you jump in the shower, turn on your air-conditioning. 

I know what you’re thinking ‘Woah there big spender, we don’t all have Visa-cards made of gold’. The truth is, I won’t buy lottery tickets but I WILL spend money on cooling my room down before bed. Why? Because when you walk out of your steamy shower into that crispy cool room, something pretty cool happens inside your body.